Text mining blog (#1)
UI-Research/work-based-learning: blog.qmd

      column_labels.border.top.color = "#FFFFFF",
      table.border.top.color = "#FFFFFF",
      table.border.bottom.color = "#FFFFFF",
      heading.background.color = '#1696d2',
      data_row.padding = px(5),
      source_notes.font.size = 16 ,
      heading.align = "center",
      row_group.background.color = '#D0D3D4',
      ...)
}

```

*This blog post is part two of a series on analyzing work-based learning
opportunities in community colleges. In [part
one](https://urban-institute.medium.com/how-web-scraping-powered-our-analysis-of-work-based-learning-opportunities-in-community-colleges-3452320dc345),
we discussed how we used web scraping to gather course descriptions from
community colleges in Florida. Now, we'll delve into how we analyzed this data
using the quanteda package in R.*

## Introduction

In our previous post, we detailed our journey of collecting course descriptions
from Florida's community colleges using web scraping techniques. We successfully
compiled a comprehensive dataset, but the question remained: how do we make
sense of this vast amount of text data? Enter quanteda, an R package designed
for quantitative text analysis.

> 

Author: Love the setup - I think a little more info about what we hoped to do with quanteda would be helpful here. Maybe instead of the question you pose here, it could be more specific about what the research goal was of the text analysis: "how can we understand more about the prevalence of WBL opportunities in this vast amount of text data", etc.

I think there's one more missing paragraph in this intro about formulating our exact research question(s) and why text analysis is the right methodology for the job, before talking about the *tool* we use to conduct this text analysis

Additionally, let's not assume folks have read the entire part 1 post - a short definition of work-based learning (even if it comes right from the intro of the previous post) would be good.

Reviewer: @alenastern

## Getting Started with Quanteda

> Quanteda, short for Quantitative Analysis of Textual Data, is a powerful tool

Author: Link to documentation

> for managing and analyzing text data in R. It offers a suite of functions for corpus management, creating document-feature matrices, analyzing keywords, and more. These functions are highly efficient and provide a consistent interface with support for multiple languages. While it operates as a standalone package, it also integrates seamlessly with extensions such as readtext, spacyr, and quanteda.textstats.

Author: I'd define corpus here, could rewrite to: "It offers a suite of functions for managing a corpus - or set of texts -  such as ..."

Edit: See you did this below - would just move the definition up here!

Author: Would similarly link to resources on DF-matrix, keyword analysis, etc. where possible to make this more accessible. I'm envisioning our audience has technical skills but assuming zero text analysis background.

> 

Author: I think I'd use the `` to make `readtext` appear not as plain text - the same for any packages and functions!

To install and load the required packages, we can use the librarian package for convenience
```{r text-}
librarian::shelf(tidyverse, # data wrangling
                 quanteda, # text mining
                 readtext # read texts and associated document-level meta-data
)
```

> Next, we load our text data containing course descriptions as well as document-level meta-data using the readtext::readtext() function. We then perform some additional cleaning steps to standardize variable names and focus our analysis on active courses for credit.

Author: *metadata

Author: Is it worth a sentence on what the dataframe below has in it? Just to orient the reader a little more with a couple of important columns or just a broad summary

Author: I'm also struggling a little with the dataframes throughout here - I know columns can be widened but it's a little daunting from a UI perspective to try to make sense of what I'm looking at with everything cut off. Any thoughts on ease of interpretation here? Is there a way to change the default widths, since there is already a helpful scroll bar built in?

Reviewer: Good points! I edited this to only select the relevant columns and made sure to include column descriptions. I also changed the default widths, let me know if it looks better. I'm thinking we can use a screenshot of that table and put it into word.

```{r}
courses <-
  readtext(here::here("data/data-intermediate/course-descriptions.csv"), 
           text_field = "course_description",
           docid_field = 'course_id') %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  filter(course_status == "ACTIVE",
         type_of_credit == "COLLEGE CREDIT")
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
courses %>% 
  slice(1:1000) %>% 
  gt() %>% 
  opt_interactive(use_text_wrapping = FALSE, use_resizers = TRUE, use_compact_mode = TRUE) %>% 
  my_theme()
```

> The first step in our analysis is to create a corpus, a collection of text documents, from our course descriptions. We can achieve this using the corpus() function in quanteda. Next, we extract the tokens in the corpus—usually words, but they can also be n-grams or multi-word expressions. The tokens function allows us to define what we mean by tokens and apply some rules to ignore elements such as punctuation and digits.

Author: link defining n-grams (or short description here)?

Reviewer: added!

```{r}

> corpus <- corpus(courses)

Author: Similarly, can you give a sentence previewing the output here? I think in general anywhere there is output, it should get at the very least a caption to guide readers to the key thing you want them to understand from it

```

```{r}
#| echo: false
corpus[1:5]
```

```{r}
tk <- tokens(corpus, what = "word", remove_punct = TRUE, remove_numbers = TRUE)
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
tk[1:5]
```

## Key-Term Searches with a Dictionary

> Our primary interest lies in identifying courses related to different types of work-based learning such as internships, apprenticeships, or practicums. For each type of work-based learning experience, we create a list of terms that we want to treat equivalently. For instance, our dictionary can specify that a course description refers to a clinical WBL if either of the terms "clinicals" or "clinical experience" appear.

Author: This is helpful background! could inform that paragraph in the Intro that I commented is missing. I'd also add that we developed this dictionary in tandem with subject matter experts from IBP who focus on workforce development research, and that it's not just a random assortment of keywords but comes from the literature

Reviewer: @alenastern

```{r}
dict <-
  dictionary(list(apprenticeship = "apprentice*",
                  practicum = c("practicum", "practica"),
                  coop = c("co-op", "cooperative education", "co-operative education"),
                  clinicals = c('clinicals', 'clinical experience'),
                  on_the_job = c("on the job training", "job training", "on-the-job training"),
                  wbl = c('work-based learning', "work based learning", "wbl"),
                  real_world_experience = c("real-world experience", "real world experience"),
                  service_learning = "serive learning",
                  field_experience = c("fieldwork", "field experience", "field-experience")))
```

Armed with our dictionary, we're ready to search for the terms using the kwic() (key-word in context) function. This function takes in a corpus and a dictionary as inputs, along with a window parameter specifying the number of tokens before and after a keyword that we want to see for context.

> 

Author: would just add to the last sentence "...and outputs []" to prime readers for the output they're seeing

Author: much clearer now!!

```{r}
keywords <- kwic(corpus, dict, window = 10) %>% as_tibble()
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
keywords %>% 
  gt() %>% 
  my_theme() %>% 
  opt_interactive(use_text_wrapping = FALSE, use_resizers = TRUE, use_compact_mode = TRUE) 
```

Finally, we can join the results from the dictionary-based keyword in-context search back to the course level data and perform some wrangling to analyze the prevalence of work-based learning opportunities in Florida's community colleges.

> 

Author: can we be more specific than "some wrangling"? E.g. reshaping, appending, whatever more specific programming verbs you used here :)

Author: I actually think this is too much detail now given how much we added in other areas. The last sentence probably isn't needed, and I think the previous ones that come after "data transformations" can probably be collapsed into one sentence that just highlights the data transformation verbs ("split", "create new columns", that kind of thing). Does that make sense?

Reviewer: Simplified the paragraph!

```{r}
courses_with_keywords <-
  keywords %>% 
  left_join(courses, by = c("docname" = "doc_id")) %>%
  mutate(sentence = glue("{pre} {keyword} {post}") |> str_trim() |> str_to_sentence()) %>% 
  separate(docname, into = c("school", "course"), sep = "-", extra = 'merge'  ) %>% 
  mutate(discipline = str_remove(discipline, ".* - ")) %>% 
  select(school, discipline, course, statewide_course, degree_type, course_credits,  sentence, pattern) |>
  arrange(school, pattern, discipline) %>% 
  mutate(pattern = str_to_title(pattern) |> str_replace_all('_', '-'))
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
courses_with_keywords %>% 
  gt() %>% 
  my_theme() %>% 
  opt_interactive(use_text_wrapping = FALSE, use_resizers = TRUE, use_compact_mode = TRUE) 
```

> ```{r}

Author: A few things here:
1. This is the main piece of output, so I'd have some text teeing it up. Maybe that means hiding the dataframe just above? But either way, I'd add a sentence explaining exactly how you generated this frequency table since this is the "climax" of the piece!
2. Curious for your thoughts on whether it's more valuable to have the literal code output or to try to clean up the table a little more like it might be formatted in formal Urban output. (Or at least just the row and column headers?)
3. I think we need a Discussion section before the conclusion. What did we learn from the text analysis? What can we say about the prevalence of the different kinds of opportunities and was this what we expected? What were a couple of the (many) limitations? Jincy's blog has all this info - we don't need that level of detail for the technical audience here, but at least the top-level takeaways!

Reviewer: @alenastern

freq_table <-
  courses_with_keywords %>%
  group_by(school, pattern) %>%
  count() %>%
  group_by(pattern) %>%
  bind_rows(summarise(.,
                      across(where(is.numeric), sum),
                      across(where(is.character), ~ "total"))) %>% 
  ungroup() %>%
  pivot_wider(names_from = pattern, values_from = n) %>%
  mutate(across(where(is.numeric), ~ replace_na(.x, 0))) %>% 
  slice(n(), 1:n()-1)
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
freq_table %>%
  gt() %>% 
  my_theme() %>% 
  opt_interactive()
```

## Conclusion

In this post, we've demonstrated how to use quanteda to analyze course
descriptions and identify work-based learning opportunities in community
colleges. While our analysis focused on Florida, the same methods could be
applied to other states or regions.

Through this analysis, we've gained valuable insights into the prevalence of
work-based learning in Florida's community colleges. We hope that our work can
serve as a foundation for further research and policy discussions on this

> important topic.

Author: Can we be a little more specific about what the next steps could be here and maybe why extending to other states would be useful? This could also be a question for Jincy and Shayne

Reviewer: @alenastern

The power of quanteda lies not just in its ability to handle large text data, but also in its flexibility. It allows researchers to tailor their analysis to their specific needs, whether that's identifying key terms, comparing text documents, or exploring text patterns.

> 

Author: I think this paragraph could be swapped with the previous one. I also think some mention of the comparative advantages of quanteda could be elaborated upon at the top of section 2 - why did we choose this instead of other packages? If it's the flexibility (which seems like a good answer!) I'd emphasize either up there or down here that this was an *exploratory* analysis so that flexibility was especially important

> *This blog post was co-authored by Judah Axelrod and Manuel Alcalá Kovalski.*

Author: I know you're not trying to list me first on a blog post *you* wrote!!!

                  on_the_job = c("on the job training", "job training", "on-the-job training"),
                  wbl = c('work-based learning', "work based learning", "wbl"),
                  real_world_experience = c("real-world experience", "real world experience"),
                  service_learning = "serive learning",
                  field_experience = c("fieldwork", "field experience", "field-experience")))
```

Equipped with our dictionary, we're ready to search for the terms using the
`kwic()` (key-word in context) function. This function takes in a corpus and a
dictionary as inputs, along with a window parameter specifying the number of
tokens before and after a keyword that we want to see for context. The output of this function is a data frame that provides the matching keyword along with its surrounding context in the `pre` and `post` columns, allowing us to understand the use of our key terms within the course descriptions.

```{r}
keywords <- kwic(corpus, dict, window = 10) %>% as_tibble()
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
keywords %>% 
  gt() %>% 
  urbn_gt_theme() %>% 
  opt_interactive(use_text_wrapping = FALSE, use_resizers = TRUE, use_compact_mode = TRUE) 
```

> Finally, we integrate the results from the dictionary-based keyword in-context search back into our course-level data. This process involves merging the keyword data with the original course data and performing a series of data transformations. Specifically, we split the `docname` document identifier into separate `school` and `course` columns, create a `sentence` column that encapsulates the matching keywords along with their context, and perform string manipulations on the `discipline` and `pattern` columns to enhance readability.

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, we integrate the results from the dictionary-based keyword in-context search back into our course-level data. This process involves merging the keyword data with the original course data and performing a series of data transformations. We split the `docname` document identifier into separate `school` and `course` columns, create a `sentence` column that encapsulates the matching keywords along with their context, and perform string manipulations on the `discipline` and `pattern` columns to enhance readability.
```

post](https://urban-institute.medium.com/how-web-scraping-powered-our-analysis-of-work-based-learning-opportunities-in-community-colleges-3452320dc345)
we explored how we gathered course descriptions from community colleges in
Florida using web scraping techniques. Work-based learning (WBL), which consists
of opportunities such as internships, apprenticeships, and practicums, focuses
on career preparation and training in supervised, work-like settings. Community
colleges, with their career-focused curricula and diverse student populations,
offer an ideal setting for such opportunities. After successfully compiling a
comprehensive dataset of course descriptions, the question remained: what is
the prevalence and nature of WBL opportunities in Florida's
community colleges as reflected in their course descriptions?

To answer this question, we turned to text analysis, an approach that allows us
to extract meaningful information from large volumes of text data. Text analysis
is particularly suited to our research question because it enables us to
identify and quantify specific keywords related to work-based
learning, within our data frame of course descriptions. In this post, we'll

> delve into our methodology for analyzing this data using the `quanteda` package
> in R, a powerful tool for quantitative text analysis.

Author: ```suggestion
delve into our methodology for analyzing this data using the `quanteda` package
in R, a powerful tool for quantitative text analyses.
```

      )
    ) %>%
    #Apply different style to the title
    tab_style(
      locations = cells_title(groups = "title"),
      style     = list(
        cell_text(weight = "bold", size = 24)
      )
    ) %>%
    tab_options(
      column_labels.border.top.width = px(5),
      column_labels.border.top.color = "#FFFFFF",
      table.border.top.color = "#FFFFFF",
      table.border.bottom.color = "#FFFFFF",
      heading.background.color = '#1696d2',
      data_row.padding = px(5),
      source_notes.font.size = 16 ,
      heading.align = "center",
      row_group.background.color = '#D0D3D4',
      ...)
}

```

## Introduction

In our [previous
post](https://urban-institute.medium.com/how-web-scraping-powered-our-analysis-of-work-based-learning-opportunities-in-community-colleges-3452320dc345)
we explored how we gathered course descriptions from community colleges in
Florida using web scraping techniques. Work-based learning (WBL), which consists
of opportunities such as internships, apprenticeships, and practicums, focuses
on career preparation and training in supervised, work-like settings. Community
colleges, with their career-focused curricula and diverse student populations,

> offer an ideal setting for such opportunities. We successfully compiled a

Author: ```suggestion
offer an ideal setting for such opportunities. After successfully compiling a
```

> offer an ideal setting for such opportunities. We successfully compiled a
> comprehensive dataset of course descriptions, but the question remained: what is

Author: ```suggestion
offer an ideal setting for such opportunities. After successfully compiling a
comprehensive dataset of course descriptions, the question remained: what is
```

the prevalence and nature of WBL opportunities in Florida's
community colleges as reflected in their course descriptions?

> To answer this question, we turned to text analysis, a methodology that allows us

Author: ```suggestion
To answer this question, we turned to text analysis, an approach that allows us
```

to extract meaningful information from large volumes of text data. Text analysis
is particularly suited to our research question because it enables us to

> identify and quantify specific keywords, such as terms related to work-based

Author: ```suggestion
identify and quantify specific keywords related to work-based
```

learning, within our data frame of course descriptions. In this post, we'll
delve into our methodology for analyzing this data using the `quanteda` package
in R, a powerful tool for quantitative text analysis.

## Getting Started with Quanteda

[Quanteda](https://quanteda.io), short for Quantitative Analysis of Textual
Data, is a powerful tool for managing and analyzing text data in R. It offers a
suite of functions for managing a
[corpus](https://tutorials.quanteda.io/basic-operations/corpus/corpus/)---or a
collection of texts---such as creating [document-feature
matrices](https://tutorials.quanteda.io/basic-operations/dfm/), [analyzing
keywords](https://tutorials.quanteda.io/basic-operations/tokens/kwic/), and
more. These functions are highly efficient and provide a consistent interface
with support for multiple languages. While it operates as a standalone package,
it also integrates seamlessly with extensions such as `readtext`, `spacyr`, and
`quanteda.textstats`.

To install and load the required packages, we can use the librarian package for

> convenience

Author: ```suggestion
convenience.
```

```{r text-}
librarian::shelf(tidyverse, # data wrangling
                 quanteda, # text mining
                 readtext # read texts and associated document-level meta-data
)
```

Next, we load our text data containing course descriptions as well as
document-level metadata using the `readtext::readtext()` function. We then
perform some additional cleaning steps to standardize variable names and focus
our analysis on active courses for credit. Here's a brief explanation of each
column in our courses dataframe:

> -   doc_id: This is a unique identifier for each course. It is constructed by

Author: think I'd just bold or use `` around the column titles

> -   doc_id: This is a unique identifier for each course. It is constructed by

Author: ```suggestion
-   doc_id: A unique identifier for each course, constructed by
```

    combining the school abbreviation, the course prefix, and the course number.
    For example, 'BC-THE-2300' refers to a course at the school abbreviated as
    'BC', with the course prefix 'THE', and the course number '2300'.

> 

Author: I would just name the school and course here to be more concrete! But this is super helpful

Author: Can you actually say the full name of the school and course here? I think the fully spelled out example makes this more accessible. I.e. "refers to [course name] 2300 at [school name]"

Reviewer: Yeah that format makes more sense to me too

> -   discipline: This column contains the discipline or subject area of the

Author: ```suggestion
-   discipline: The subject area of the
```

>     course. The discipline is represented as a code and a description, such as

Author: ```suggestion
-   discipline: The subject area of the
    course, represented as a code and a description, such as
```

    '080 - THEATRE ARTS'.

> -   course_title: This is the title of the course.

Author: ```suggestion
-   course_title: The title of the course.
```

> -   course_credits: This column indicates the number of credit hours that a

Author: ```suggestion
-   course_credits: The number of credit hours that a
```

    student receives upon completion of the course.

> -   text: This column contains the course description text that was scraped from

Author: ```suggestion
-   text: The course description text that was scraped from
```

    the [Florida Department of Education's course catalog
    website](https://flscns.fldoe.org/Default.aspx). This is the main body of

>     text that will be analyzed using text mining techniques. The text appears to

Author: ```suggestion
    text that we analyze using text mining techniques. The text appears to
```

    be truncated in the provided data, as indicated by the ellipsis at the end

>     of each string.

Author: I don't understand what this last sentence means? I see ellipses in the corpus print out below but not in the dataframe preview. Might not be a necessary detail to include

Author: Re-upping this comment

Reviewer: Removed

```{r}
courses <-
  readtext(here::here("data/data-intermediate/course-descriptions.csv"), 
           text_field = "course_description",
           docid_field = 'course_id') %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  filter(course_status == "ACTIVE",
         type_of_credit == "COLLEGE CREDIT") %>% 
  select(doc_id, discipline, course_title, course_credits, text) %>%
  mutate(course_title = str_to_title(course_title),
         discipline = str_to_title(discipline),
         text = str_to_sentence(text))
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
courses %>% 
  slice(1:5) %>% 
  gt() %>% 
    opt_interactive(
    use_resizers = TRUE,
    use_filters = TRUE,
    use_compact_mode = TRUE,
    use_highlight = TRUE,
    use_search = TRUE,
    use_text_wrapping = TRUE
  ) %>%
    cols_width(
    doc_id ~ px(150),
    discipline ~ px(180),
    course_title ~ px(150),
    course_credits ~ px(80),
    text ~ px(350)
  ) %>% 
  urbn_gt_theme()
```

The first step in our analysis is to create a corpus, a collection of text
documents, from our course descriptions. We can achieve this using the
`corpus()` function in `quanteda.` Next, we extract the tokens in the

> corpus---usually words, but they can also be n-grams or multi-word expressions.

Author: Still think a link to definition of n-grams would be helpful here!

Reviewer: Added a link

> The tokens function allows us to define what we mean by tokens and apply some

Author: ```suggestion
The tokens function allows us to define what we consider to be a token and apply some
```

rules to ignore elements such as punctuation and digits.

```{r}
corpus <- corpus(courses)
```

The output of this code is a corpus object that consists of the course

> descriptions from our data frame. Each document in the corpus corresponds to a
> course description, and the corpus contains metadata about each document. For

Author: ```suggestion
descriptions from our data frame. The corpus contains metadata about the documents, each of which correspond to a
course description. For
```

instance, the first few documents in the corpus look something like this:

```{r}
#| echo: false
corpus[1:3]
```

Each line represents a document in the corpus, with the document ID (e.g.,
"BC-THE-2300") followed by a snippet of the course description. This corpus will
serve as the basis for our subsequent text analysis.

> After tokenizing the corpus, we obtain a list of tokens for each document. These tokens are essentially the individual words from each course description, stripped of punctuation and numbers.

Author: ```suggestion
After tokenizing the corpus, we obtain a list of tokens for each document. In this case, the tokens are the individual words from each course description, stripped of punctuation and numbers.
```

```{r}

> tk <- tokens(corpus, what = "word", remove_punct = TRUE, remove_numbers = TRUE)

Author: Does this code chunk belong with the previous one where you define what tokens are?

Reviewer: I rearranged the paragraphs and code chunks a bit so that the flow makes more sense and is less repetitive. Let me know if I captured your intent

```

This function returns a list of tokens for each document in the corpus which looks like this:
```{r}
#| echo: false
tk[1:3]
```

> Each line represents a document in the corpus, with the document ID (e.g., "BC-THE-2300") followed by a list of tokens extracted from the course description. These tokens will be used for our subsequent text analysis tasks.

Author: Think this might be a redundant line - I see almost the same thing above

Author: Re-upping this

Reviewer: Removed

## Key-Term Searches with a Dictionary

> Our primary interest lies in identifying courses related to different types of WBL such as internships, apprenticeships, or practicums. To do this, we developed a dictionary of key terms in collaboration with subject matter experts from [Urban's Income and Benefits Policy Center](https://www.urban.org/policy-centers/income-and-benefits-policy-center) who specialize in workforce development research. Therefore, the dictionary used in this analysis is a product of careful curation based on the literature on WBL.

Author: ```suggestion
Our primary interest lies in identifying courses related to different types of WBL such as internships, apprenticeships, or practicums. To do this, we developed a dictionary of key terms in collaboration with subject matter experts from [Urban's Income and Benefits Policy Center](https://www.urban.org/policy-centers/income-and-benefits-policy-center) who specialize in workforce development research. The resulting dictionary used in this analysis is a product of careful curation based on the literature on WBL.
```

> For each type of WBL experience, we created a list of terms that we want to treat equivalently. This approach allows us to capture the various ways in which a particular type of WBL might be referred to in a course description. For instance, our dictionary specifies that a course description refers to a clinical WBL experience if either of the terms "clinicals" or "clinical experience" appear. This method ensures that our analysis is comprehensive and accurately reflects the range of WBL opportunities offered by community colleges.

Author: ```suggestion
For each type of WBL experience, we created a list of terms that we want to treat equivalently.  For instance, our dictionary specifies that a course description refers to a clinical WBL experience if either of the terms "clinicals" or "clinical experience" appear. This approach allows us to capture the various ways in which a particular type of WBL might be referred to in a course description.
```

courses_with_keywords <-
  keywords %>% 
  left_join(courses, by = c("docname" = "doc_id")) %>%
  separate(docname, into = c("school", "course"), sep = "-", extra = 'merge'  ) %>% 
  mutate(sentence = glue("{pre} {keyword} {post}") |> str_trim() |> str_to_sentence(),
         discipline = str_remove(discipline, ".* - "),
         pattern = str_to_title(pattern) |> str_replace_all('_', '-')) 
  
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
courses_with_keywords %>% 
  select(school, discipline, course, course_credits,  sentence, pattern) |>
  arrange(school, pattern, discipline) %>% 
  gt() %>% 
  urbn_gt_theme() %>% 
  opt_interactive(use_text_wrapping = FALSE, use_resizers = TRUE, use_compact_mode = TRUE) 
```

Having identified the keywords in the course descriptions, we now turn our attention to quantifying the prevalence of different types of WBL opportunities across schools. To do this, we group our data by school and pattern (which represents the type of WBL opportunity), count the number of occurrences, and then reshape our data so that each type of WBL opportunity becomes a separate column. We also add a 'total' row that sums up the counts across all schools for each type of opportunity.

> 

Author: This, on the other hand, is directly helpful and the perfect amount of detail!

```{r}
freq_table <-
  courses_with_keywords %>%
  group_by(school, pattern) %>%
  count() %>%
  group_by(pattern) %>%
  bind_rows(summarise(.,
                      across(where(is.numeric), sum),
                      across(where(is.character), ~ "total"))) %>% 
  ungroup() %>%
  pivot_wider(names_from = pattern, values_from = n) %>%
  mutate(across(where(is.numeric), ~ replace_na(.x, 0))) %>% 
  slice(n(), 1:n()-1)
```

```{r}
#| echo: false
freq_table %>%
  rename_with(~str_to_title(.x), everything()) %>% 
  gt() %>% 
  urbn_gt_theme() %>% 
  tab_header(title = "Frequency of Work-Based Learning Opportunities by School")

> ```

Author: This table looks so good!! Love the gt theme, didn't know we had an urbn_gt_theme

Reviewer: I wrote it at the top of my .qmd file! I literally copy and paste this across projects so i'd be interested in discussing how to make it more available for folks if it's useful.

## Discussion

> Our text analysis has provided valuable insights into the prevalence of WBL opportunities in Florida's community colleges. The medical and education sectors dominate WBL opportunities, with clinicals and field experiences being the most common types. However, apprenticeships, despite their proven value in career preparation and advancement, are one of the least offered forms of WBL.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Our analysis revealed that the medical and education sectors dominate WBL opportunities, which is expected given that these fields often require practical experience for licensure. Clinicals, largely offered in medical and related fields, and field experiences, predominantly in the education sector, were the most common types of WBL identified. However, we also found that apprenticeships, despite their value in career preparation and advancement ([Kuehn, Marotta, et al. 2022](https://www.urban.org/research/publication/beyond-productivity-how-employers-gain-more-apprenticeship)), are one of the least offered forms of WBL.

> It's important to note that our methodology has limitations. For instance, our current dataset lacks information on the quality of WBL experiences and dimensions of equity, such as whether the programs are paid. This is a significant consideration since many community college students work while enrolled in their courses and may not be able to devote time to an unpaid internship or other WBL program.

Author: I think one more limitation would help round this out, e.g. in the dictionaries we compiled, the sample of schools we could consider, the course descriptions themselves, etc.

> Despite these limitations, this exploratory analysis provides a starting point for understanding the prevalence of WBL in community colleges and identifying opportunities for expansion. Future research could build on this work to develop more robust measures of WBL prevalence and to investigate the quality and equity of these opportunities.

Author: I'd move this piece about future research down to the end of the conclusion and probably just drop the first sentence here entirely.

colleges. While our analysis focused on Florida, the same methods could be
applied to other states or regions. Extending the analysis to other states would provide a broader understanding of WBL opportunities in community colleges across the U.S., informing policy and identifying areas for expansion. This could help establish goals, support programs, and highlight best practices nationwide.

`Quanteda` stands out for its ability to efficiently handle large volumes of text data and intuitive interface. It provides researchers with the flexibility to shape their analysis according to their specific needs, such as identifying key terms, comparing text documents, or investigating text patterns. Given that our study was exploratory in nature, this flexibility was particularly useful. It allowed us to quickly and efficiently examine novel text-data, making `quanteda` an excellent choice for text analysis. It is important to note that the functions used in this analysis only scratch the surface of the full functionality of `quanteda`. To learn more, you can read `quanteda`'s excellent [official tutorial](https://tutorials.quanteda.io) and [documentation](https://quanteda.io). 

> 

Author: Are we linking to our repo somewhere here too?

Reviewer: Yes, added to the introduction

`Quanteda` stands out for its ability to efficiently handle large volumes of text data and intuitive interface. It provides researchers with the flexibility to shape their analysis according to their specific needs, such as identifying key terms, comparing text documents, or investigating text patterns. Given that our study was exploratory in nature, this flexibility was particularly useful. It allowed us to quickly and efficiently examine novel text-data, making `quanteda` an excellent choice for text analysis. It is important to note that the functions used in this analysis only scratch the surface of the full functionality of `quanteda`. To learn more, you can read `quanteda`'s excellent [official tutorial](https://tutorials.quanteda.io) and [documentation](https://quanteda.io). 

Through this analysis, we've gained valuable insights into the prevalence of
WBL in Florida's community colleges. We hope that our work can
serve as a foundation for further research and policy discussions on this
important topic. 

> *This blog post was co-authored by Manuel Alcalá Kovalski and Judah.*

Author: I like the idea of going by just my first name like Madonna
